### Intro to Software Engineering
### Homework 3
##### 0016043 鄭順一

---

###### Q1
1. List at least four types of systems tests. (4%)
    + Types
        + Recovery Testing
        + Security Testing
        + Stress Testing
        + Performance Testing
        + Deployment Testing
        + ...
    + References
        + [Wikipedia - Software Verification and Validation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verification_and_validation_(software))
    
2. What are the differences between validation testing goals and acceptance testing goals? (4%)
    + Validation Testing Goals: The process of checking that a software system meets specifications and that it fulfills its intended purpose.  
    + Acceptance Testing Goals: A test conducted to determine if the requirements of a specification or contract are met.
    + References
        + [Wikipedia - Software Testing: Acceptance Testing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_testing#Acceptance_testing)
        + [Wikipedia - Acceptance Testing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acceptance_testing#Overview)

3. What is regression testing? When and how it can be used? (8%)
    1. What
        + A type of software testing that seeks to uncover new software bugs, or regressions, in existing functional and non-functional areas of a system
    2. When and how can be used
        + After changes such as enhancements, patches or configuration changes, have been made to the system.
        + Common methods of regression testing include rerunning previously completed tests and checking whether program behavior has changed and whether previously fixed faults have re-emerged.
   3. References
       + [Wikipedia - Software Testing: Regression Testing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_testing#Regression_testing)
       + [Wikipedia - Regression Testing: Uses](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regression_testing#Uses)


---

###### Q2
> Consider the testing in Web applications/services,  

1. What are to be tested for the interface? (5%)
    + Things to be tested
        + Links
        + Forms
        + Client-side scripting
        + Dynamic HTML
        + Pop-up windows
        + CGI scripts
        + Streaming content
        + Cookies
   + References
       + Textbook p538: 20.4.2 Testing Interface Mechanisms


2. How to test the navigation in these applications? (5%)
    + Navigation testing exercises each NSU (Navigation Semantic Unit) to ensure that these requirements can be achieved.
    + References
        + Textbook p546: 20.6.2 Testing Navigation Semantics

---

###### Q3
1. What are done and what cannot be done in software review? (5%)
    + Can be Done
        + A meeting conducted by technical people for technical people
	   + A technical assessment of a work product created during the software engineering process
	   + Software quality assurance mechanism
        + A training ground
    + Cannot be Done
        + A project summary or progress assessment
        + A meeting intended solely to impart information
        + A mechanism for political or personal reprisal
    + References
        + Course Slides Ch11 p3, p4
        + [Wikipedia - Software Review](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_review)
2. What are the metrics applied in software review? (5%)
    + Metrics
        + Absolute metrics
            + Numerical values that describe a trait of the code such as the number of references to a particular variable in an application.
            + The number of lines of code (LOC).
            + Such as the number of lines of code, do not involve subjective context but are material fact.
        + Relative metrics
            + A representation of an attribute that cannot be directly measured
            + Subjective and reliant on the context of where the metric was derived
            + There is no definitive way to measure such an attribute.
            + Multiple variables are factored into an estimation of the degree of testing difficulty
            + Any numeric representation or rating is only an approximation and is subjective.
    + References
        + [OWASP - Code Review Metrics](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Code_Review_Metrics)

---

###### Q4
1. Define a software metrics. (4%)
    + The IEEE glossary defines a metric as “a quantitative measure of the degree to which a system, component, or process possesses a given attribute.”
    + Reference
        + Course Slides Ch15. p4.
2. Describe the four steps to develop a metrics discussed in class. (8%)
    + Steps
        1. Assess your current position
        2. Define your key components
        3. Build a culture of analytics
        4. Monitor your efforts
    + References
        + [4 steps to uncovering the “right metrics” for customer service](http://www.zendesk.com/blog/right-metrics-for-customer-service)

---

###### Q5
List the quality characteristics and sub-characteristics in ISO 9126. (8%)  

+ ISO 9126 Quality Characteristics
    + Functionality - A set of attributes that bear on the existence of a set of functions and their specified properties. The functions are those that satisfy stated or implied needs.
        + Suitability
        + Accuracy
        + Interoperability
        + Security
        + Functionality Compliance
    + Reliability - A set of attributes that bear on the capability of software to maintain its level of performance under stated conditions for a stated period of time.
        + Maturity
        + Fault Tolerance
        + Recoverability
        + Reliability Compliance
    + Usability - A set of attributes that bear on the effort needed for use, and on the individual assessment of such use, by a stated or implied set of users.
        + Understandability
        + Learnability
        + Operability
        + Attractiveness
        + Usability Compliance
    + Efficiency - A set of attributes that bear on the relationship between the level of performance of the software and the amount of resources used, under stated conditions.
        + Time Behaviour
        + Resource Utilization
        + Efficiency Compliance
    + Maintainability - A set of attributes that bear on the effort needed to make specified modifications.
        + Analyzability
        + Changeability
        + Stability
        + Testability
Maintainability Compliance
    + Portability - A set of attributes that bear on the ability of software to be transferred from one environment to another.
        + Adaptability
        + Installability
        + Co-Existence
        + Replaceability
        + Portability Compliance
+ References
    + [Wikipedia - ISO/IEC 9126](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_9126)

---

###### Q6
1. Describe statistical quality assurance? (4%)
    + Statistical quality assurance reflects a growing trend throughout industry to become more quantitative about quality. For software, statistical quality assurance implies the following steps:
        1. Information about software errors and defects is collected and categorized.
        2. An attempt is made to trace each error and defect to its underlying cause (e.g., nonconformance to specifications, design error, violation of standards, poor communication with the customer).
        3. Using the Pareto principle (80 percent of the defects can be traced to 20 per- cent of all possible causes), isolate the 20 percent (the vital few).
        4. Once the vital few causes have been identified, move to correct the problems that have caused the errors and defects.
    +  References
        + Textbook p439 - 16.5 Statistical Software Quality Assurance
2. What are the goals for the project SQA activities? (4%)
    + Goals
        + Evaluations to be performed
        + Audits and reviews to be performed
        + Standards that are applicable to the project
        + Procedures for error reporting and tracking
        + Documents to be produced by the SQA group
        + Amount of feedback provided to the software project team
    + References
        + Course Slides Ch10 p23
3. List the tasks performed by the SQA group. (4%)
    + Tasks
        + Prepares an SQA plan for a project.
        + Participates in the development of the project’s software process description.
        + Reviews software engineering activities to verify compliance with the defined software process.
        + Audits designated software work products to verify compliance with those defined as part of the software process.
        + Ensures that deviations in software work and work products are documented and handled according to a documented procedure.
        + Records any noncompliance and reports to senior management.
    + References
        + Textbook p436 - 16.3.1 SQA Tasks

---

###### Q7
1. Describe the mitigation, monitoring, and management of risks. (4%)
    + Mitigation
        + Plan for additional resources in anticipation of fire fighting.
        + How can we avoid the risk?
    + Monitoring
        + What factors can we track that will enable us to determine if the risk is becoming more or less likely?
    + Management
        + What contingency plans do we have if the risk becomes a reality?
    + References
        + Course Slides Ch19 p16
2. Compare the risks due to customers and process maturity. (6%)
    + Questions need to be concerned due to Customers
        + Have you worked with the customer in the past?
        + Does the customer have a solid idea of requirements?
        + Has the customer agreed to spend time with you?
        + Is the customer willing to participate in reviews?
        + Is the customer technically sophisticated?
        + Is the customer willing to let your people do their
job—that is, will the customer resist looking over your shoulder during technically detailed work?
        + Does the customer understand the software engineering process?
    + Questions need to be concerned due to Process Maturity
        + Have you established a common process framework? • Is it followed by project teams?
        + Do you have management support for software
egineering
        + Do you have a proactive approach to SQA? • Do you conduct formal technical reviews?
        + Are CASE tools used for analysis, design and testing?
        + Are the tools integrated with one another? • Have document formats been established?
    + Conclusion
        + The risks due to customers are usually hard to predict and controll than the risks due to process maturity because things about process maturity usually related to the framework or developing method inside the project team, while the customers always need lots of time to figure out what they really want.
    + References
        + Course Slides Ch19 p19, p20
        + Me

---

###### Q8
1. What is software maintenance? (4%)
    + Definition
        + Released to end-users
        + Within days, bug reports filter back to the software engineering organization.
        + Within weeks, one class of users indicates that the software must be changed so that it can accommodate the special needs of their environment.
        + Within months, another corporate group who wanted nothing to do with the software when it was released, now recognizes that it may provide them with unexpected benefit. They’ll need a few enhancements to make it work in their world.

    + References
        + Course Slides Ch20 p2
2. What software is maintainable? What not? (6%)
    + Maintainable
        + Maintainable software exhibits effective modularity
        + It makes use of design patterns that allow ease of
understanding.
        + It has been constructed using well-defined coding standards and conventions, leading to source code that is self-documenting and understandable.
        + It has undergone a variety of quality assurance techniques that have uncovered potential maintenance problems before the software is released.
        + It has been created by software engineers who recognize that they may not be around when changes must be made.
    + Unmaintainable
        + Those softwares which didn't match the conditions metioned above.
    + References
        + Course Slides Ch20 p3

---

###### Q9
1. What is Business process reengineering, **BPR**? (4%)
    + Definition
        + A business management strategy
        + Originally pioneered in the early 1990s
        + Focusing on the analysis and design of workflows and processes within an organization.
    + References
        + [Wikipedia - Business Process Engineering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_process_reengineering)
    
2. What are the principles for **BPR**? (4%)
    + Principles
        + Help organizations fundamentally rethink how they do their work in order to dramatically improve customer service
        + Cut operational costs
        + Become world-class competitors.
    + References
        + [Wikipedia - Business Process Engineering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_process_reengineering)
3. What is reverse engineering? (4%)  
    + Definition
        + The process of discovering the technological principles of a device, object, or system through analysis of its structure, function, and operation.
        + It often involves disassembling something and analyzing its components and workings in detail - for either purposes of maintenance or to support creation of a new device or program that does the same thing, without using or simply duplicating (without understanding) the original.
    + References
        + [Wikipedia - Reverse Engineering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_engineering)

---
